well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
the economy is it time to party like
it's 19 29 okay so when we've talked
about the economy before I've said this
but I'll say it again I'm not an
economist that is not my area of
expertise when I know about the economy
comes from a historical perspective I
can look at certain events and say this
happened in the past and this is what it
meant then that's why we talked about
the inverted yield curve because when
that happens it normally means something
Bad's about to happen okay so today
somebody sent me something the entire US
Treasury curve is under 1% you know what
that means from a historic perspective
you don't and nobody else does because
it's never happened that's that's that
has not occurred before
sorry to call people that actually
understand the the inner workings rather
than just being able to know that
history rhymes so after talking to a
couple of different people in digesting
what they told me I tell you when I when
I kind of took away from it our economy
is Humpty Dumpty okay to understand
what's happening now we got to go back
to the Great Recession Humpty Dumpty
fell and he was put back together right
and in walks President Obama and picks
him up and puts him back on the wall no
no he climbed up a ladder and Obama
installed two of the steps let's say
there's ten Obama helped with the
recovery and he didn't really cause it
okay he assisted
so when Trump takes over
Humpty is still climbing up that ladder
and this is cool you should do this
anyway if you look at economic charts
that go back to 2008 you'll see where
the economy started to rebound it
started to go up
Trump's great economy everything that
he's been taking credit for is just a
continuation of the trend that it was on
had nothing to do with him okay
so he starts enacting his own policies
Humpty is now on the wall when you enact
an economic policy it doesn't have
impacts right away takes a while so the
tariffs the trade war the tax on social
safety nets all that stuff it took a
while to take effect right so the trade
war that's like him smearing butter all
over the top of the wall and Humpty
Dumpty's up there sliding around on it
the attacks on social safety nets that's
like him putting a frying pan down at
the bottom of the wall for when Humpty
Falls everybody I talked to didn't want
me to make one thing clear a correction
would have occurred no matter what Trump
did not cause this downturn it was going
to happen but just like with Obama
helping it go up Trump made it worse and
it's gonna help it go down so he didn't
cause this he didn't pop the bubble but
he sharpened the needle the needle was
already there it was gonna eventually
happen he just made it happen
more okay
so when Humpty starts slipping around
because of the trade war
that's the inverted yield curve that was
our warning he's up there but he manages
to stay on his feet and then he starts
sneezing and every time he hears about
one of his friends sneezing and he gets
a little bit shaky err that's what we've
been watching the last couple weeks and
then the thing nobody saw coming at
least I didn't opec plus they had an
argument
the Saudis wanted to stabilize the oil
markets which are they're shaky because
everybody's sneezing and the Russians
didn't want to play ball they disagreed
so in response to punish the Russians
the Saudis are kind of like well we're
just going to flood the market with oil
and apparently that was like walking up
behind Humpty and pushing him that's
where we're at right now now tomorrow
today by the time you'll watch this we
will find out how far
Humpty falls and whether or not Trump
lights a fire underneath the Frog man so
that's where we're at
that's that's what in simple terms terms
and Valena for me to understand it
that's what went down nobody nobody I
talked to could really give me a guess
everybody was like well it could be a
mild recession not really that big of a
deal last till the you know just the
first half of this year or it could be a
depression that's that's a pretty big
range of outcomes and I think it's going
to widely be determined
by what happens over the next couple of
days but again I'm not an economist I'm
sure there are going to be people in the
comment section filling in anything that
I left out and I'm sure I left something
out the this is outside my comfort zone
but a whole bunch of people ask
questions about it so I'm giving you the
best information I could get but the
cool takeaways that Obama really didn't
fix the economy but he helped him Trump
really didn't destroy it but he helped
destroy it and that that's where we're
at and Trump's great economy was just in
a continuation of the trend really look
at the charts that is that's really
clear you should be able to reach just
about anybody by showing them in visual
form so that's where we're at we're
probably in for a bumpy few weeks at
least anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night